PACKAGES.md, before:

# μpkg packages

This is a curated list of packages that can be installed with μpkg.  
Use the GitHub [`upkg` topic](https://github.com/topics/upkg) to look
for additional packages beyond the ones listed here.

| Name                                                                                            | Description                                    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| [orbit-online/upkg](https://github.com/orbit-online/upkg)                                       | μpkg itself                                    |
| [andsens/docopt.sh](https://github.com/andsens/docopt.sh)                                       | Bash argument parser, use the v1.0.0-upkg tag  |
| [orbit-online/bitwarden-container](https://github.com/orbit-online/bitwarden-container)         | Containerized version of Bitwarden             |
| [orbit-online/bitwarden-tools](https://github.com/orbit-online/bitwarden-tools)                 | Toolset for integrating with the bitwarden cli |
| [orbit-online/checkdeps](https://github.com/orbit-online/checkdeps)                             | Tooling to check dependencies                  |
| [orbit-online/cli-tools](https://github.com/orbit-online/cli-tools)                             | A muddle of useful CLI tools                   |
| [orbit-online/git-release](https://github.com/orbit-online/git-release)                         | Tool for releasing versions using git tags     |
| [orbit-online/image-version](https://github.com/orbit-online/image-version)                     | Get container image version based on a git ref |
| [orbit-online/pinentry-wrapper](https://github.com/orbit-online/pinentry-wrapper)               | Pinentry wrapper with a CLI interface          |
| [orbit-online/records.sh](https://github.com/orbit-online/records.sh)                           | A small logging library for bash.              |
| [orbit-online/sign-s3](https://github.com/orbit-online/sign-s3)                                 | Sign S3 URLs                                   |
| [orbit-online/socket-credential-cache](https://github.com/orbit-online/socket-credential-cache) | Credentials caching tool                       |
| [orbit-online/smallstep-wrapper](https://github.com/orbit-online/smallstep-wrapper)             | Wrapper for step-cli with YubiKey integration  |

Commit message:

Add lock-screen to package list

PACKAGES.md, after:

# μpkg packages

This is a curated list of packages that can be installed with μpkg.  
Use the GitHub [`upkg` topic](https://github.com/topics/upkg) to look
for additional packages beyond the ones listed here.

| Name                                                                                            | Description                                    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| [orbit-online/upkg](https://github.com/orbit-online/upkg)                                       | μpkg itself                                    |
| [andsens/docopt.sh](https://github.com/andsens/docopt.sh)                                       | Bash argument parser, use the v1.0.0-upkg tag  |
| [orbit-online/bitwarden-container](https://github.com/orbit-online/bitwarden-container)         | Containerized version of Bitwarden             |
| [orbit-online/bitwarden-tools](https://github.com/orbit-online/bitwarden-tools)                 | Toolset for integrating with the bitwarden cli |
| [orbit-online/checkdeps](https://github.com/orbit-online/checkdeps)                             | Tooling to check dependencies                  |
| [orbit-online/cli-tools](https://github.com/orbit-online/cli-tools)                             | A muddle of useful CLI tools                   |
| [orbit-online/git-release](https://github.com/orbit-online/git-release)                         | Tool for releasing versions using git tags     |
| [orbit-online/image-version](https://github.com/orbit-online/image-version)                     | Get container image version based on a git ref |
| [orbit-online/lock-screen](https://github.com/orbit-online/lock-screen)                         | A tool to lock the screen unless a key is held |
| [orbit-online/pinentry-wrapper](https://github.com/orbit-online/pinentry-wrapper)               | Pinentry wrapper with a CLI interface          |
| [orbit-online/records.sh](https://github.com/orbit-online/records.sh)                           | A small logging library for bash.              |
| [orbit-online/sign-s3](https://github.com/orbit-online/sign-s3)                                 | Sign S3 URLs                                   |
| [orbit-online/socket-credential-cache](https://github.com/orbit-online/socket-credential-cache) | Credentials caching tool                       |
| [orbit-online/smallstep-wrapper](https://github.com/orbit-online/smallstep-wrapper)             | Wrapper for step-cli with YubiKey integration  |
